Here is a simple,
but prescriptive checklist of items I would like you to use every
day to better ensure your verbal communications are effective and
to get your message across even better.
Now we went into the full detail in the module,
Know Your ABC's,
so I'm just going to touch on it here real quickly with a couple of slides.
For all forms of communication you may do,
I would like you to think and plan your communications.
Communication isn't a random happening as it normally is,
but it's just like building software.
You think, plan, and develop software.
So before you click send or save or print or stand up in front
of a group to present or lead a meeting,
I want you to be clear in what you say,
that's transparent and be able to be easily comprehended,
be concise, use as few words as possible to get the necessary information,
or a compressed information in order to be brief.
Be courteous always.
Politeness in a way that shows consideration of others and of course,
good manners.
Be consistent,
that is able to maintain a particular standard or repeat a
particular activity or artifact with minimal variation.
And of course, be compelling.
You want your readers or audience to listen to your message,
be attracted to your message,
and it will encourage strong interest in attention as well.
I mentioned this in the module, Know Your ABC's,
but I'm going to mention it again here; I think it's very helpful.
So I have a little post-it on the side of my computer and
that way you can easily glance over and be sure you are
always following the 5 C's.
It's just a simple little check list.
You're getting ready to send out an email or finish a
presentation and just kind of glance over and go,
yes okay, is this slide clear?
Is it concise?
Oh, maybe I'll shorten this up.
Is it courteous?
I want to make sure that it is.
Is it consistent?
And of course, compelling.
Now let's check out and have a quick overview of what's coming in the rest of this module.